Added new section regarding time series feature in the enterprise ten… (#798)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/users-guide/enterprise-tenant-bundle/timeseries.md

---
weight: 120
title: Enhanced time series support
layout: redirect
aliases:
  - /users-guide/enterprise-edition/#timeseires
---

> Starting with 10.16, the Cumulocity IoT operational data store has the capability of an enhanced time series support (so-called time series collections) for measurements data. This chapter summarizes how to enable or disable the feature.

Reviewer: I assume that we only add this to the documentation starting with 10.16 so there is no need to mention the release version.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
The feature might be enabled for new tenants by default from a Cumulocity IoT administrator.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### How to configure

The feature can be configured via a REST API as a tenant configuration.
The following example illustrates how to _**enable**_ time series collections for a sub-tenant:

```http request
POST {sub-tenant-url}/tenant/options
Content-Type: application/json
{
    "category": "configuration",
    "key": "timeseries.mongodb.collections.mode",
    "value": "ENABLED"
}
```

The following example illustrates how to _**disable**_ time series collections for a sub-tenant:

```http request
POST {sub-tenant-url}/tenant/options
Content-Type: application/json
{
    "category": "configuration",
    "key": "timeseries.mongodb.collections.mode",
    "value": "DISABLED"
}
```

### Implications of the configuration

The configuration affects the collection that stores measurement data.
By enabling or disabling the property, the system switches collections in the background.
This might lead to a situation where data resides in multiple collections.

> To prevent such situations, configure the property only at the beginning of tenant setup, ideally when no measurement data is stored yet.

Author: For the record, you already appovide this text :P

Migration and seamless configuration will be part of future releases.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Once enabled, avoid switching the property back to `DISABLED` as this can lead to experience data loss. Do this only in case of an issue or emergency.

> {{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< /c8y-admon-caution >}}
```

### Unsupported APIs

The following APIs are not supported and do not have a replacement:

* `GET /measurement/measurements/{id}`
* `DEL /measurements/measurement/{id}`

> The following API is not supported in 10.16 will be supported starting with 10.17:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following API is not supported in release 10.16, but will be supported starting with 10.17:
```

Reviewer: We need to change this sentence for 10.17 then slightly.

* `DEL /measurements/measurement/`

Instead, in 10.16 retention rules can be used to remove expired measurements data from the Operational Store.

### How to check whether time series collections are enabled

With the following request, you can check the value of the time series collections property:

> GET /tenant/options/configuration/timeseries.mongodb.collections.mode

Reviewer: should be formatted as code

Author: done

    "value": "DISABLED"
}
```

### Implications of the configuration

The configuration affects the collection that stores measurement data.
By enabling or disabling the property, the system switches collections in the background.
This might lead to a situation where data resides in multiple collections.
To prevent such situations, configure the property only at the beginning of tenant setup, ideally when no measurement data is stored yet.
Migration and seamless configuration will be part of future releases.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Once enabled, avoid switching the property back to `DISABLED` as this can lead to experience data loss. Do this only in case of an issue or emergency.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

### Unsupported APIs

The following APIs are not supported and do not have a replacement:

* `GET /measurement/measurements/{id}`
* `DEL /measurements/measurement/{id}`

The following API is partially supported:

* `DEL /measurements/measurement/`

In 10.16 The parameters `dateFrom` and `dateTo` are not supported. In 10.17+ the parameters `dateFrom` and `dateTo` must be truncated to full hours (for example, 2022-08-19T14:00:00.000Z), otherwise an error will be returned.

> Instead, in 10.16 retention rules can be used to remove expired measurements data from the Operational Store.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, use retention rules to remove expired measurements data from the Operational Store in version 10.16 and below.
```

Author: There is no below than 10.16 for the feature.

```http request
POST {sub-tenant-url}/tenant/options
Content-Type: application/json
{
    "category": "configuration",
    "key": "timeseries.mongodb.collections.mode",
    "value": "DISABLED"
}
```

### Implications of the configuration

The configuration affects the collection that stores measurement data.
By enabling or disabling the property, the system switches collections in the background.
This might lead to a situation where data resides in multiple collections.
To prevent such situations, configure the property only at the beginning of a tenant setup, ideally when no measurement data is stored yet.
Migration and seamless configuration will be part of future releases.

{{< c8y-admon-caution >}}
Once enabled, avoid switching the property back to `DISABLED` as this can lead to experience data loss. Do this only in case of an issue or emergency.
{{< /c8y-admon-caution >}}

### Unsupported APIs

The following APIs are not supported and do not have a replacement:

* `GET /measurement/measurements/{id}`
* `DEL /measurements/measurement/{id}`

The following API is partially supported:

* `DEL /measurements/measurement/`

> In version 10.16 the parameters `dateFrom` and `dateTo` are not supported. In 10.17+ they must be truncated to full hours (for example, `2022-08-19T14:00:00.000Z`), otherwise an error is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In release 10.16, the parameters `dateFrom` and `dateTo` are not supported. Instead, use retention rules to remove expired measurements data from the Operational Store.

In 10.17+ the parameters `dateFrom` and `dateTo` must be truncated to full hours (for example, `2022-08-19T14:00:00.000Z`), otherwise an error is returned.
```

By enabling or disabling the property, the system switches collections in the background.
This might lead to a situation where data resides in multiple collections.
To prevent such situations, configure the property only at the beginning of a tenant setup, ideally when no measurement data is stored yet.
Migration and seamless configuration will be part of future releases.

{{< c8y-admon-caution >}}
Once enabled, avoid switching the property back to `DISABLED` as this can lead to experience data loss. Do this only in case of an issue or emergency.
{{< /c8y-admon-caution >}}

### Unsupported APIs

The following APIs are not supported and do not have a replacement:

* `GET /measurement/measurements/{id}`
* `DEL /measurements/measurement/{id}`

The following API is partially supported:

* `DEL /measurements/measurement/`

In release 10.16, the parameters `dateFrom` and `dateTo` are not supported. Instead, use retention rules to remove expired measurements data from the Operational Store.

In 10.17+ the parameters `dateFrom` and `dateTo` must be truncated to full hours (for example, `2022-08-19T14:00:00.000Z`), otherwise an error is returned.

> Instead, use retention rules to remove expired measurements data from the Operational Store in version 10.16 and below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
